---
title: Chicken Mushroom Marsala
category: food
layout: back
---

# Chicken Mushroom Marsala
[Original Source: Cooking for Engineers (Michael Chu)](http://www.cookingforengineers.com/recipe/59/Chicken-Mushroom-Marsala)

## Preparation (1 hour 30 minutes)

### Ingredients:
* Chicken Breasts ($5-8)
* Marsala Wine (Trader Joes, $4)
* Heavy Cream (1/2 small container, ~$1.5)
* Potatoes ($2)
* Mushrooms ($3)
* Garlic (1/2 of a head, $.50)

### Stuff you Need On Hand:
* Butter
* Milk
* 1 Egg (if breading)
* Flour or Panko (if breading)
* Salt
* Pepper
* Oil

### Prep Stuff (45 minutes):
* Roast Garlic: Cannot just leave it at temperature 1/10 on the burner, it doesn't roast it quite enough.
* Peel/cut 3 potatoes.
* Preheat oven  to 400 and assemble/grease cooking grate/drop tray.
* Butterfly and trim chicken, cut as large and as thin as possible. Maybe pound them?
* Note: Save a couple pieces of unbreaded chicken for frying pre-sauce so we can get some browned protein flavor in there.
* For breading:
    * Beat egg
    * Breading: I've been using mixtures of corn starch and panko (and sometimes regular breadcrumbs as well.)
    ** Internet says if frying, to dredge in flour/spices, then dip in egg, then in panko. (Also to try doubling up on the first two steps for crispier crust.)
    ** If baking, try coating chicken with butter (melt a stick) and then pressing panko on
    ** If baking, try toasting panko in a pan with 4 T butter, spices (they used parlsey, garlic, ginger, red pepper and garlic salt after); Season cutlets with salt/pepper lightly, then dip in egg and panko mix.
* Wash mushrooms, set aside to dry.


### Cooking (35 minutes):
* Put chicken in oven at 450 as soon as it's ready.
* Take garlic off heat as soon as they\'re ready so you can peel them. They should smell pretty gnarly and the outside wrappings might be getting a little toasty.
* Start potatoes boiling.
* When done sauteeing unbreaded chicken, cook mushrooms in browned-burnt bits for ~1 minute, then remove.
* When mushrooms are done, pour wine into pan. (At least 60% of a bottle for two people!) Reduce over next ~10 minutes.
* After wine is reduced and doesn\'t smell so sharp, add cream until desired color is achieved. Allow to reduce over next 5 minutes. CAREFUL with the cream though, I just used a really large quantity of cream and it reduced extremely quickly, forming huge bubbles if not constantly attended to. I looked away for a second and it carmalized... another few seconds and it would have just boiled off into nothing!
    * Add mushrooms and some chickens back into pan while reducing cream to infuse some extra goodness.
    * If smaller quantity of sauce is desired, you can reduce it further for maximum flavor in every drop. Note that the sauce will become sweeter as you reduce it further, reaching an ultimte carmalization stage.
    * If a larger quantity is desired, reduce it until flavor is achieved and then thicken with corn starch.
* Peel and press garlic. You have a garlic press, right?
* Finish potatoes.
* Finish it.
