---
title: Phasors on the 50G
category: engineering
layout: back
---

#Tips for calculating phasor quantities using the 50g:

## Adding ->V2, RECT and CYLIN to soft menu

* We often need to convert between rectangular and polar form. Lets add these commands to the CUSTOM softmenu.
* V2 builds a two-dimensional vector using the first two stack values and builds in polar/rectangular depending on mode.
* RECT and CYLIN don't convert the first stack value as I thought they did, but instead set the coordinate mode. (Thus displaying ALL stack values in that mode.)
* [Source from HP Forum](http://h30499.www3.hp.com/t5/Calculators/A-Simple-Way-to-Assign-Menu-Commands-with-HP50g/td-p/1162495)
* invoke: [white] [mode=>custom] # to open custom softmenu
* invoke: {->V2 RECT CYLIN} [enter] MENU [enter] # caps values can be fetched from the [CAT]alog
* In words, put the ->V2, RECT and CYLIN commands in curly brackets, then call the MENU command.

## Entering complex values, the hard way

* Make sure complex mode is on
* For rectangular values, enter between round parenthesis with a space. ie 5+j3 would be (5 3)
* For polar values, enter between round parenthesis spaced with angle symbol ([alpha][red][6]). ie 5 at 30 degrees would be (5<30)

## Entering complex values, better

* Make sure complex mode is on, otherwise ->V2 will just build a regular vector. With complex mode, it still looks just like a regular vector but the j is implied.
* As described above, setup a custom softmenu with the ->V2, RECT and CYLIN/POLAR functions.
* For rectangular values, switch to rectangular coordinate system, put your two components on the stack, and ->V2
* For polar values, switch to polar system, put r and angle on the stack, then ->V2
* To switch your answer between the two, you can just switch coordinate systems. All complex values are stored in rectangular form and displayed according to the chosen system.
