---
title: Chicken Mushroom Marsala
category: disabled
layout: back
---

# (Stuffed) Chicken Mushroom Marsala
[Original Recipe: Cooking for Engineers (Michael Chu)](http://www.cookingforengineers.com/recipe/59/Chicken-Mushroom-Marsala)

# Quick Overview:
* Roast Garlic
* Start Mashed Potatoes
* Prep Chicken
* Make batter/breading
* Make filling if stuffing
* Make and batter/bread chicken
* Make sauce
* Finish Potatoes
* Plate!

## Preparation

### Ingredients:
* Chicken Breast, or thin slices that are large enough to build a sandwich with.
* Marsala Wine (Trader Joes, $4). Dry or sweet will work, but the sweet can be overpoweringly so.
* Heavy Cream (1/2 small container)
* 3 large potatoes
* Mushrooms
* Garlic (1/2 of a head)

### Stuff you Need On Hand:
* Butter
* Milk
* 1 Egg (if breading)
* Flour or Panko (if breading)
* Salt
* Pepper
* Oil

### Prep Stuff:
* Roast Garlic: Don't remove from its garlicy wrappings, just detach from the rest of the head and put a few pieces in a small, covered pan. Cannot just leave it at temperature 1 or 2/10 on the burner, it will come out as a solid chunk of garlic rather than squishy and roasted. When unwrapping later, remove green stem from inside and then mix into mashed potatoes.
* Start 3 large potatoes for mashing
* Preheat oven  to 400 and assemble/grease cooking grate/drop tray. A few attempts at just buttering a pan and sticking the chickens in have been perfectly fine and successful, but one attempt came out soggy on the bottom. I think it was when I breaded some and put them directly into a buttered pan with nowhere to drip.
* Butterfly and trim chicken, cut as large and as thin as possible. Maybe pound them?
* Note: Save a couple pieces of unbreaded chicken for frying pre-sauce so we can get some browned protein flavor in there.
* Breading:
  * Beat an egg
  * Make breading with some panko/salt/pepper.
  * Other weird breadings the internet suggested:
    * Just coating chicken in butter, then pressing panko on. (!!!)
    * Toast panko in pan with 4T butter, some spices (parsley/garlic/ginger/redpep) before using for breading.
* Batter:
  * Wait is this a thing? I don't think we batter and fry marsala chicken.
  * You don't have to egg it if you're not feeling it. Not sure about end result.
  * Make batter. 50/50 flour and corn starch, plus some baking powder (1/2 tsp powder per cup of dry mix.) Water, beer, or milk in almost equal amounts to dry. Milk might be inferior for some purposes?
  * Dredge in flour/spices before dipping in eggwash, then batter.
* Filling:
  * Dealgnaid has just been making it! (Which is a problem, because she doesn't ever record what she's doing.)
  * Like some ricotta and oregano and parmesean and, uh...
  * Olive Garden Stuffing:
    * 1/4c provolone or gouda (smoked shredded cheese)
    * 4 oz mozzarella, shredded
    * 1/8c parmesean, grated
    * 1/4c breadcrumbs
    * 1/2tsp fresh garlic, minced
    * 1/8 tsp redpep flakes, crushed
    * 1 Tbsp tomato flakes
    * 1/6c green onions (no thanks)
    * 3/8c sour cream (3 oz)
    * 1/4 tsp salt
    * 1/4 tsp blackpep
* Wash mushrooms, set aside to dry.


### Cooking:
* Cook chicken at 450 for baking, finish at 400 when frying.
* Did you forget the garlic?
* Also you started the potatoes boiling in the last section?
* If stuffing:
  * Make chicken sandwiches
  * Dredge each side of each sandwich in some flour + salt/pepper before browning in some butter/oil.
* Cook mushrooms for ~1 minute, preferably in pan after chicken.
* Either remove mushrooms, or just leave them in for reduction.
* Pour Marsala wine into pan. Half a bottle or so?
* Let wine reduce a bit by itself. Sharp smell should recede. Then add some cream. (A couple tablespoons?)
* Allow to reduce some more. Endpoint is tough to say... you can reduce it until you get a sauce-like consistency with no additions, but sometimes this ends up caramelizing too far and becoming too sweet. Probably best to reduce to taste, then thicken it up with some corn starch/milk. (We used cream, don't make the mistake of adding water/cornstarch and making two separate sauce layers.)
* Finish potatoes; Use garlic press if garlic isn't soft enough. Cream and butter.
* Chicken: 165 F.
